# Plot read coverage graphs of contigs classified as Prophage-like, Sloping, or HighCovNoPattern

Plot the read coverages of a contig and its associated pattern-match for
Prophage-like, Sloping and HighCovNoPattern classifications. Returns a
list of ggplot objects.

## Usage

``` r
plotTrIdentResults(
  VLPpileup,
  WCpileup,
  TrIdentResults,
  onlyPlot,
  logScale = FALSE,
  saveFilesTo
)
```

## Arguments

- VLPpileup:

  VLP-fraction pileup file generated by mapping sequencing reads from a
  sample's ultra-purified VLP-fraction mapped to the sample's
  whole-community metagenome assembly. The pileup file MUST have the
  following format: \* V1: Contig accession \* V2: Mapped read coverage
  values averaged over 100 bp windows \* V3: Starting position (bp) of
  each 100 bp window. Restarts from 0 at the start of each new contig.
  \* V4: Starting position (bp) of each 100 bp window. Does NOT restart
  at the start of each new contig.

- WCpileup:

  A whole-community pileup file generated by mapping sequencing reads
  from a sample's whole-community mapped to the sample's whole-community
  metagenome assembly. The pileup file MUST have the following format:
  \* V1: Contig accession \* V2: Mapped read coverage values averaged
  over 100 bp windows \* V3: Starting position (bp) of each 100 bp
  window. Restarts from 0 at the start of each new contig. \* V4:
  Starting position (bp) of each 100 bp window. Does NOT restart at the
  start of each new contig.

- TrIdentResults:

  Output from \`TrIdentClassifier()\`.

- onlyPlot:

  Optional, use to 'only plot' the contigs classified as either
  "Prophage-like", "Sloping", or "HighCovNoPattern".

- logScale:

  TRUE or FALSE, display VLP-fraction read coverage in log10 scale.
  Default is FALSE.

- saveFilesTo:

  Optional, Provide a path to the directory you wish to save output to.
  A folder will be made within the provided directory to store results.

## Value

Large list containing ggplot objects

## Examples

``` r
data("VLPFractionSamplePileup")
data("WholeCommunitySamplePileup")
data("TrIdentSampleOutput")

patternMatches <- plotTrIdentResults(
  VLPpileup = VLPFractionSamplePileup,
  WCpileup = WholeCommunitySamplePileup,
  TrIdentResults = TrIdentSampleOutput
)
```
