# Identify potential specialized transduction events on contigs classified as Prophage-like

Search contigs classified as Prophage-like for dense read coverage
outside of the pattern-match borders that may indicate specialized
transduction. Returns a list with the first object containing a summary
table and the second object containing a list of plots of with
associated specialzied transduction search results. If the plot is
green, it has been identified as having potential specialized
transduction.

## Usage

``` r
specializedTransductionID(
  VLPpileup,
  TrIdentResults,
  specificContig,
  noReadCov = 500,
  specTransLength = 2000,
  logScale = FALSE,
  verbose = TRUE,
  SaveFilesTo
)
```

## Arguments

- VLPpileup:

  VLP-fraction pileup file generated by mapping sequencing reads from a
  sample's ultra-purified VLP-fraction mapped to the sample's
  whole-community metagenome assembly. The pileup file MUST have the
  following format: \* V1: Contig accession \* V2: Mapped read coverage
  values averaged over 100 bp windows \* V3: Starting position (bp) of
  each 100 bp window. Restarts from 0 at the start of each new contig.
  \* V4: Starting position (bp) of each 100 bp window. Does NOT restart
  at the start of each new contig.

- TrIdentResults:

  Output from \`TrIdentClassifier()\`

- specificContig:

  Optional, Search a specific contig classified as Prophage-like
  ("NODE_1").

- noReadCov:

  Number of basepairs of zero read coverage encountered before
  specialized transduction searching stops. Default is 500. Must be at
  least 100.

- specTransLength:

  Number of basepairs of non-zero read coverage needed for specialized
  transduction to be considered. Default is 2000. Must be at least 100.

- logScale:

  TRUE or FALSE, display VLP-fraction read coverage in log10 scale.
  Default is FALSE.

- verbose:

  TRUE or FALSE. Print progress messages to console. Default is TRUE.

- SaveFilesTo:

  Provide a path to the directory you wish to save output to.
  \`specializedTransductionID()\` will make a folder within the provided
  directory to store results.

## Value

Large list containing two objects

## Examples

``` r
data("VLPFractionSamplePileup")
data("TrIdentSampleOutput")

specTransduction <- specializedTransductionID(
  VLPpileup = VLPFractionSamplePileup,
  TrIdentResults = TrIdentSampleOutput
)
#> 2 contigs have potential specialized transduction
#> We recommend that you also view the results of this search with
#> logScale=TRUE

specTransductionNODE62 <- specializedTransductionID(
  VLPpileup = VLPFractionSamplePileup,
  TrIdentResults = TrIdentSampleOutput,
  specificContig = "NODE_62"
)
#> 1 contigs have potential specialized transduction
#> We recommend that you also view the results of this search with
#> logScale=TRUE
```
